# CLI

The command line interface to the Storacha Network.

## Getting started

Install the CLI from npm (**requires Node 18 or higher**):

```sh
npm install -g @storacha/cli
```

Login with this agent to act on behalf of the account associated with your email address:

```sh
storacha login alice@example.com
```

Create a new Space for storing your data and register it:

```sh
storacha space create Documents # pick a good name!
```

If you'd like to learn more about what is going on under the hood with w3up and its use of Spaces, [UCANs](https://ucan.xyz/), and more, check out the `client` README [here](https://github.com/storacha/upload-service/tree/main/packages/w3up-client#usage).

Upload a file or directory:

```sh
storacha up recipies.txt
```

> ⚠️❗ **Public Data** 🌎: All data uploaded to storacha is available to anyone who requests it using the correct CID. Do not store any private or sensitive information in an unencrypted form using storacha.

> ⚠️❗ **Permanent Data** ♾️: Removing files from storacha will remove them from the file listing for your account, but that doesn’t prevent nodes on the decentralized storage network from retaining copies of the data indefinitely. Do not use storacha for data that may need to be permanently deleted in the future.

## Commands

- Basics
  - [`storacha login`](#storacha-login-email)
  - [`storacha up`](#storacha-up-path-path)
  - [`storacha ls`](#storacha-ls)
  - [`storacha rm`](#storacha-rm-root-cid)
  - [`storacha open`](#storacha-open-cid)
  - [`storacha whoami`](#storacha-whoami)
- Space management
  - [`storacha space add`](#storacha-space-add-proofucan)
  - [`storacha space create`](#storacha-space-create-name)
  - [`storacha space ls`](#storacha-space-ls)
  - [`storacha space use`](#storacha-space-use-did)
  - [`storacha space info`](#storacha-space-info)
- Capability management
  - [`storacha delegation create`](#storacha-delegation-create-audience-did)
  - [`storacha delegation ls`](#storacha-delegation-ls)
  - [`storacha delegation revoke`](#storacha-delegation-revoke-delegation-cid)
  - [`storacha proof add`](#storacha-proof-add-proofucan)
  - [`storacha proof ls`](#storacha-proof-ls)
- Key management
  - [`storacha key create`](#storacha-key-create)
- UCAN-HTTP Bridge
  - [`storacha bridge generate-tokens`](#storacha-bridge-generate-tokens)
- Advanced usage
  - [`storacha can blob add`](#storacha-can-blob-add-path)
  - [`storacha can blob ls`](#storacha-can-blob-ls)
  - [`storacha can blob rm`](#storacha-can-blob-rm-multihash)
  - [`storacha can index add`](#storacha-can-index-add-cid)
  - [`storacha can space info`](#storacha-can-space-info-did) <sup>coming soon!</sup>
  - [`storacha can space recover`](#storacha-can-space-recover-email) <sup>coming soon!</sup>
  - [`storacha can upload add`](#storacha-can-upload-add-root-cid-shard-cid-shard-cid)
  - [`storacha can upload ls`](#storacha-can-upload-ls)
  - [`storacha can upload rm`](#storacha-can-upload-rm-root-cid)

---

### `storacha login <email>`

Authenticate this agent with your email address to get access to all capabilities that had been delegated to it.

### `storacha up <path> [path...]`

Upload file(s) to web3.storage. The IPFS Content ID (CID) for your files is calculated on your machine, and sent up along with your files. web3.storage makes your content available on the IPFS network

- `--no-wrap` Don't wrap input files with a directory.
- `-H, --hidden` Include paths that start with ".".
- `-c, --car` File is a CAR file.
- `--shard-size` Shard uploads into CAR files of approximately this size in bytes.
- `--concurrent-requests` Send up to this many CAR shards concurrently.

### `storacha ls`

List all the uploads registered in the current space.

- `--json` Format as newline delimited JSON
- `--shards` Pretty print with shards in output

### `storacha rm <root-cid>`

Remove an upload from the uploads listing. Note that this command does not remove the data from the IPFS network, nor does it remove it from space storage (by default).

- `--shards` Also remove all shards referenced by the upload from the store. Use with caution and ensure other uploads do not reference the same shards.

### `storacha open <cid>`

Open a CID on https://w3s.link in your browser. You can also pass a CID and a path.

```bash
# opens a browser to https://w3s.link/ipfs/bafybeidluj5ub7okodgg5v6l4x3nytpivvcouuxgzuioa6vodg3xt2uqle
storacha open bafybeidluj5ub7okodgg5v6l4x3nytpivvcouuxgzuioa6vodg3xt2uqle

# opens a browser to https://w3s.link/ipfs/bafybeidluj5ub7okodgg5v6l4x3nytpivvcouuxgzuioa6vodg3xt2uqle/olizilla.png
storacha open bafybeidluj5ub7okodgg5v6l4x3nytpivvcouuxgzuioa6vodg3xt2uqle/olizilla.png
```

### `storacha whoami`

Print information about the current agent.

### `storacha space add <proof>`

Add a space to the agent. The proof is a CAR encoded UCAN delegating capabilities over a space to _this_ agent.

`proof` is a filesystem path to a CAR encoded UCAN, as generated by `storacha delegation create` _or_ a base64 identity CID string as created by `storacha delegation create --base64`.

### `storacha space create [name]`

Create a new space with an optional name.

### `storacha space ls`

List spaces known to the agent.

### `storacha space use <did>`

Set the current space in use by the agent.

### `storacha space info`

Get information about a space (by default the current space) from the service, including
which providers the space is currently registered with.

- `--space` The space to get information about. Defaults to the current space.
- `--json` Format as newline delimited JSON

### `storacha delegation create <audience-did>`

Create a delegation to the passed audience for the given abilities with the _current_ space as the resource.

- `--can` A capability to delegate. To specify more than one capability, use this option more than once.
- `--name` Human readable name for the audience receiving the delegation.
- `--type` Type of the audience receiving the delegation, one of: device, app, service.
- `--output` Path of file to write the exported delegation data to.
- `--base64` Format as base64 identity CID string. Useful when saving it as an environment variable.

```bash
# delegate space/info to did:key:z6M..., output as a CAR
storacha delegation create did:key:z6M... --can space/info --output ./info.ucan

# delegate admin capabilities to did:key:z6M..., output as a string
storacha delegation create did:key:z6M... --can 'space/*' --can 'upload/*' --can 'filecoin/*' --base64

# delegate write (not remove) capabilities to did:key:z6M..., output as a string
storacha delegation create did:key:z6M... \
  --can 'space/blob/add' \
  --can 'space/index/add' \
  --can 'upload/add' \
  --can 'filecoin/offer' \
  --base64
```

### `storacha delegation ls`

List delegations created by this agent for others.

- `--json` Format as newline delimited JSON

### `storacha delegation revoke <delegation-cid>`

Revoke a delegation by CID.

- `--proof` Name of a file containing the delegation and any additional proofs needed to prove authority to revoke

### `storacha proof add <proof.ucan>`

Add a proof delegated to this agent. The proof is a CAR encoded delegation to _this_ agent. Note: you probably want to use `storacha space add` unless you know the delegation you received targets a resource _other_ than a space.

### `storacha proof ls`

List proofs of delegated capabilities. Proofs are delegations with an audience matching the agent DID.

- `--json` Format as newline delimited JSON

### `storacha key create`

Print a new key pair. Does not change your current signing key

- `--json` Export as dag-json

### `storacha bridge generate-tokens`

Generate tokens that can be used as the `X-Auth-Secret` and `Authorization` headers required to use the UCAN-HTTP bridge.

See the [UCAN Bridge specification](https://github.com/storacha/specs/blob/main/w3-ucan-bridge.md) for more information
on how these are expected to be used.

- `--can` One or more abilities to delegate.
- `--expiration` Unix timestamp (in seconds) when the delegation is no longer valid. Zero indicates no expiration.
- `--json` If set, output JSON suitable to splat into the `headers` field of a `fetch` request.

### `storacha can blob add [path]`

Store a blob file to the service.

### `storacha can blob ls`

List blobs in the current space.

- `--json` Format as newline delimited JSON
- `--size` The desired number of results to return
- `--cursor` An opaque string included in a prior upload/list response that allows the service to provide the next "page" of results

### `storacha can blob rm <multihash>`

Remove a blob from the store by base58btc encoded multihash.

### `storacha can space info <did>`

### `storacha can space recover <email>`

### `storacha can upload add <root-cid> <shard-cid> [shard-cid...]`

Register an upload - a DAG with the given root data CID that is stored in the given shard(s), identified by CID.

### `storacha can upload ls`

List uploads in the current space.

- `--json` Format as newline delimited JSON
- `--shards` Pretty print with shards in output
- `--size` The desired number of results to return
- `--cursor` An opaque string included in a prior upload/list response that allows the service to provide the next "page" of results
- `--pre` If true, return the page of results preceding the cursor

### `storacha can upload rm <root-cid>`

Remove an upload from the current space's upload list. Does not remove blobs from the store.

## Environment Variables

### `STORACHA_PRINCIPAL`

Set the key `storacha` CLI should use to sign ucan invocations. By default `storacha` CLI will generate a new Ed25519 key on first run and store it. Set it along with a custom `STORACHA_STORE_NAME` to manage multiple custom keys and profiles. Trying to use an existing store with different keys will fail.

You can generate Ed25519 keys with `storacha key create`.

**Usage**

```bash
STORACHA_PRINCIPAL=$(storacha key create --json | jq -r .key) STORACHA_STORE_NAME="other" storacha whoami
did:key:z6Mkf7bvSNgoXk67Ubhie8QMurN9E4yaCCGBzXow78zxnmuB
```

Default _unset_, a random Ed25519 key is generated.

### `STORACHA_STORE_NAME`

Allows you to use the `storacha` CLI with different profiles. You could use it to log in with different emails and keep the delegations separate.

`storacha` CLI stores state to disk using the [`conf`](https://github.com/sindresorhus/conf) module. `STORACHA_STORE_NAME` sets the conf [`configName`](https://github.com/sindresorhus/conf#configname) option.

Default `storacha-cli`

### `STORACHA_SERVICE_URL`

`storacha` CLI will use the w3up service at https://upload.storacha.network. If you would like
to use a different w3up-compatible service, set `STORACHA_SERVICE_DID` and `STORACHA_SERVICE_URL` environment variables to set the service DID and URL endpoint.

Default `https://upload.storacha.network`

### `STORACHA_SERVICE_DID`

`storacha` CLI will use the w3up `did:web:upload.storacha.network` as the service did. If you would like
to use a different w3up-compatible service, set `STORACHA_SERVICE_DID` and `STORACHA_SERVICE_URL` environment variables to set the service DID and URL endpoint.

Default `did:web:upload.storacha.network`

## FAQ

### Where are my keys and delegations stored?

In the system default user config directory:

- macOS: `~/Library/Preferences/storacha`
- Windows: `%APPDATA%\storacha\Config` (for example, `C:\Users\USERNAME\AppData\Roaming\storacha\Config`)
- Linux: `~/.config/storacha` (or `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/storacha`)

## Contributing

Feel free to join in. All welcome. Please read our [contributing guidelines](https://github.com/storacha/upload-service/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) and/or [open an issue](https://github.com/storacha/upload-service/issues)!

## License

Dual-licensed under [MIT + Apache 2.0](https://github.com/storacha/upload-service/blob/main/LICENSE.md)
